# Green party reading notes 

## [Germany's Green Party: A victory that doesn't feel like one](https://www.dw.com/en/germanys-green-party-a-victory-that-doesnt-feel-like-one/a-59328354) (2021,09,27)

The Greens have won 15% of the vote in the federal election. The environmentalist party will likely be part of the next government, but their dream of taking the chancellorship is over for now.

cons: 
* The Greens were never a big-tent party in terms of their program, their members and their electorate, The Greens' core electorate still tends to be young, urban and educated, Oskar Niedermayer says. "It differs significantly in its social composition from the population as a whole, and that just has its limits quantitatively.

* According to Niedermayer, the party leadership consisting of Baerbock and her co-chairperson Robert Habeck has moved the Greens from the left further to the center of the party landscape. As a result, in early summer they were able to win voters beyond their core constituency. "But only for a relatively short period of time. And when the chancellor candidate made serious mistakes at the beginning of the election campaign, these voters immediately jumped ship."

And the Greens' major issue — climate protection — was at the top of the agenda in the election campaign since the disastrous floods in western Germany in mid-July, at the latest.

pros: 
* We achieved significantly more positive gains [for the Green Party] in the flooded areas than in the non-flooded areas."
* two out of three Germans said that climate protection was one of the most important tasks for the new government. Simultaneously, the Greens were repeatedly credited with the greatest competence in finding solutions for environmental and climate protection. 

Change is scary:
Changes are wanted by the electorate, but they also cause fear. For me, that's also human." 

## [German Green Party's Robert Habeck set to take on a leading role](https://www.dw.com/en/german-green-partys-robert-habeck-is-economy-minister-and-vice-chancellor/a-57093689) (2021,09,28)

Haberk: Green Party's choice for the position as vice chancellor 
* agriculture minister in a CDU-led coalition 
* Habeck and Baerbock co-leadership: Green parties long tradition of co-leadership, but also toxic rivalries between two would-be partners, who each tend to represent opposite wings of the party. now they both priortizing pragmatism over ideological infighting. 

* earlier years experience: author, philosopher 

## Germany's energy crisis: Economy Minister Robert Habeck under pressure

For some time, the Green economy minister has been Germany’s most popular politician, outshining Chancellor Olaf Scholz in times of dramatic gas and electricity price hikes. But now the tide is turning 

* feared a wave of insolvencies because of the rising energy prices + security of supply dominate perceptions
* The conservative opposition, business leaders, and even the business-oriented Free Democrats (FDP) — the smallest party in the coalition government — are all calling for Germany's nuclear power stations to continue operating. They point out the desperate need for every bit of electricity that is not generated by gas. On the other hand, Habeck is a leading politician of the Greens and has to stand by his party's core principles,
* [gas levy decision](https://www.dw.com/en/germany-sets-winter-gas-levy-amid-warnings-of-its-impact/a-62806667): an additional 2.419 euro cents per kilowatt hour to be paid by all of the country's gas-consuming households and businesses from October onward. Habeck found himself having to admit that his gas levy plans may have been a mistake: The surcharge meant to prop up struggling energy providers turned out to benefit profit-making companies too. 
* "Because of Habeck's high popularity and celebrated communication style, the political opposition, his competitors in the government and also individual interest groups in society have increasingly focused their attention and criticism on Habeck as a person. 

As a result, Habeck's personal rating has droppeed. 

# [What do the German Greens want if they gain power](https://www.dw.com/en/what-do-the-german-greens-want-if-they-gain-power/a-57248907) (2021,09,24) 

Greeens have broken down materials to all other parties, with the excepton of AFD. they have joined coalitions with all other major parties (excpet Bavarian CSU, though formed several coalition with CDU)

become more united behind the party leadership 

## Climate protection, foreign policy 
In terms of policy, the Greens have remained largely true to their 40-year-old founding principles: Environmental protection, 
* especially the fight against climate change, remains central to their election program
* where the party says it wants to cut greenhouse gases by 70% by 2030, a major target extension compared to the current government's plan, which aims to achieve a 55% reduction.
> agenda framing: the flood and the climate disaster around the world 
> what are the Green's particular high standards on the climate despite an accelation of Germany's "energy transition" to renewables and a rapid expansion of renewable energies. 

Foregin policy: 
* stronger Europe, EU strong again 
* critical approach toward Russia and China: oppose the Nord Stream 2 pipeline from Russia through Baltic Sea, support for opposition groups in China. 


Economic and social policy: 
* favor a strong state and more spending. (election program full of expensive programs and the empty state coffers) 

Against more social division:
Many Green politicians, such as the Bundestag Vice President Claudia Roth, have become hate figures for the country's far-right.



[The Greens go mainstream](https://www.dw.com/en/german-green-party-goes-mainstream/a-55702152)

[Germany's Greens: from 'anti-party party' to political power](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4hFh3BAnDx0) 
The birth of the Greens
* the anti-party party, anti-establishment and radical
The Greens move from opposition to governing party
* anti-war party agree to launch war
Climate change puts Greens in the right place at the right time
* not necessarily a political disaster: issue framing as we are ahead of time, and we are the future. 
The middle ground: Greens move toward political center
* how faster should greens to reach the middle ground and agree the compromise by breaking some founding ideas of party.
The big one: Annalena Baerbock's campaign for chancellor
* CV, book plagraism-> lack of expreience and professionalism 

[Energy crisis: will a green transition throw the global economy into a recession?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n0GT-oZD8nc) (2022,02)

enery price 400& first energy price of green transition 
1. covid-19 (fossil fuel production shrink) 
2. Germany: renewables (41.4%), lignite coal (17.8%) Natural Gas (16.7%) Nuclear (11.7%), Hard coal (8.4%), mineral oil (0.8%), other 
3. China surging enenry demand after production recovery spillover effect
4. import gas from Russia (dependence on Russia) 
5. EU's natural gas source: Russia (41.1%), Norway, Algeria, Qatar (LNG: liquified natural gas) 
6. Nord stream 2: need the approve from German regualtors
* criticism: increase EU's dependence on German's gas 
7. fossil and coal producer may have the incentive to creater a shortage of supply, which raise the price 
8. suspension of Nord stream --> blamed towards Greens: overly ambitious targets to reduce emissions made fossil fuels pariahs before renewables fully ready to take the road. 

> issue framing: situation exposes not so much the fact that we tried to decarbonize but the opposite: if we have a large share of renewables at this stage--> less reliant on fossil fuels,less reliant on the energy source whose price is currently very high, we need to transition away from the future risk --> investment in newables 
> what about now? 
> * idle coal production line back to work 
>  set high price on fossil fuel and coal: but need to have a affordable renewables which consumers can shift to, consumers can be angry. 

# [Nuclear power: German Greens put pragmatism first](https://www.dw.com/en/nuclear-power-german-greens-put-pragmatism-before-core-values/a-63521581) (2022,10,23)

The Green Party has seen challenges to its core principles ever since it became part of Germany's three-party government. Pragmatism is forcing painful decisions on weapons exports, fossil fuels, and nuclear power.

As the Green party climbed in the polls ahead of 2021 federal elections: the "Basis" (grassroots) of the party began to voicing concenrns that entering government would again mean a compromise on party principles and ideology.
* the war in Ukraine has prompted Green Party leaders to spearhead calls for weapons deliveries to a war region (force Green party leader Robert Haberk put human rights issue and climate concenrs aside in search of replacements for Russia gas and oil) 
* And now, the party that has its roots in the anti-nuclear movement of the 1980s, has had to accept that the country's remaining three nuclear power stations will keep on operating beyond the end of the year. (corresponding bill must still pass through parliament) 

"The fact that this decision was made by Chancellor Scholz, makes it easier for Green leaders to sell it to the party base," climate policy researcher Chantal Sullivan-Thomsett tells DW.
* "They can argue that the policy shift did not come because they failed to push their agenda hard enough or dropped a key component of the Green 'brand'."

## Diversification in Northern Germany
Lower Saxony (northwestern Germany): take the Emsland nuclear plant offline, 
* Robert Habeck had wanted to take the Emsland nuclear plant offline by the end of this year as planned.
* And Lower Saxony's Social Democrats and Greens had argued that continued operation was unnecessary, as the region produces a sufficient amount of wind energy to make ends meet
* Greens co-leader Ricarda Lang criticized Scholz's decision to keep Emsland online as being "not necessary for grid stability."

compromise-happy "Realos" (realists) and the radical "Fundis" (fundamentalists) which were the trademark of the Green Party for decades. In recent months, the Greens have had to make difficult decisions at an "insane speed," Habeck said. And they have proven they "justifiably" bear the responsibility of being in government.


















































